![Machine generated alternative text:Quick-StartProtocol   Sample & Assay Technologies 6.Apply the supernatant from step 5 to the QIAprep spin column by decanting or pipetting.  Centrifuge for 30–60 s and discard the flow-through, or  apply vacuum to the manifold to draw the solution through the QIAprep spin column and switch off the vacuum source. 7.Recommended: Wash the QIAprep spin column by adding 0.5 ml Buffer PB.      Centrifuge for 30–60 s and discard the flow-through, or  apply vacuum to the manifold to draw the solution through the QIAprep spin column and switch off the vacuum source. Note: This step is only required when using endA+ strains or other bacteria strains with high nuclease activity or carbohydrate content. 8.Wash the QIAprep spin column by adding 0.75 ml Buffer PE.   Centrifuge for 30–60 s and discard the flow-through, or  apply vacuum to the manifold to draw the solution through the QIAprep spin column and switch off the vacuum source. Transfer the QIAprep spin column to the collection tube. 9.Centrifuge for 1 min to remove residual wash buffer. 10.Place the QIAprep column in a clean 1.5 ml microcentrifuge tube. To elute DNA, add 50 l Buffer EB (10 mM Tris·Cl, pH 8.5) or water to the center of the QIAprep spin column, let stand for 1 min, and centrifuge for 1 min.    For up-to-date licensing information and product-specific disclaimers, see the respective QIAGEN kit handbook or user manual. Trademarks: QIAGEN®, QIAprep® (QIAGEN Group). 1063640 10/2010 © 2010 QIAGEN, all rights reserved. ](Exported%20image%2020250102022335-0.png) ![Machine generated alternative text:Quick-StartProtocol   Sample & Assay Technologies QIAprep® Spin Miniprep Kit The QIAprep Spin Miniprep Kit (cat. nos. 27104 and 27106) can be stored at room temperature (15–25°C) for up to 12 months. For more information, please refer to the QIAprep Miniprep Handbook, December 2006, which can be found at: www.qiagen.com/handbooks. For technical assistance, please call toll-free 00800-22-44-6000, or find regional phone numbers at www.qiagen.com/contact.  Notes before starting  Optional: Add LyseBlue reagent to Buffer P1 at a ratio of 1 to 1000. Add the provided RNase A solution to Buffer P1, mix, and store at 2–8°C. Add ethanol (96–100%) to Buffer PE before use (see bottle label for volume). All centrifugation steps are carried out at 13,000 rpm (~17,900 x g) in a conventional table-top microcentrifuge.  1.Pellet 1–5 ml bacterial overnight culture by centrifugation at >8000 rpm  (6800 x g) for 3 min at room temperature (15–25°C). 2.Resuspend pelleted bacterial cells in 250 l Buffer P1 and transfer to a microcentrifuge tube. 3.Add 250 l Buffer P2 and mix thoroughly by inverting the tube  4–6 times until the solution becomes clear. Do not allow the lysis reaction to proceed for more than 5 min. If using LyseBlue reagent, the solution will turn blue. 4.Add 350 l Buffer N3 and mix immediately and thoroughly by inverting the tube 4–6 times. If using LyseBlue reagent, the solution will turn colorless. 5.Centrifuge for 10 min at 13,000 rpm (~17,900 x g) in a table-top microcentrifuge.  October 2010 ](Exported%20image%2020250102022337-1.png)

Notes for low copy plasmids
 ![Appendix C: Special Applications Purification of low-copy plasmid DNA and cosmids All QIAprep Miniprep protocols in this handbook can be used for preparation of low-copy- number plasmid DNA or cosmids from O ml overnight E. co/icultures grown in LB medium. Only two slight modifications to the protocols are required" • The wash step with Buffer PB is required for all strains. • When plasmid DNA or cosmids are > 10 kb, preheat Buffer EB (or water) to 700C prior to eluting DNA from the QIAprep membrane. A 10 ml overnight LB culture typically yields 5-10 pg DNA. Note: When using 10 ml culture volume, it is recommended to double the volumes of Buffers PI, P2, and N3 used. ](Exported%20image%2020250102022342-2.png)  

Source: Qiagen miniprep handbook : [Download link](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&ved=2ahUKEwi2uaDH9MHvAhUZOs0KHco9CAoQFjAAegQIAxAD&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.qiagen.com%2Fus%2Fresources%2Fdownload.aspx%3Fid%3D22df6325-9579-4aa0-819c-788f73d81a09%26lang%3Den&usg=AOvVaw04WC2OL6hHg5LVEhrFiWge)

Note: Growth for more than 16 h is not recommended because cells begin to lyse and plasmidDNA yields may be reduced.
   

Here's a detailed handbook on miniprep for more theory - [https://www.qiagen.com/us/resources/resourcedetail?id=22df6325-9579-4aa0-819c-788f73d81a09&lang=en](https://www.qiagen.com/us/resources/resourcedetail?id=22df6325-9579-4aa0-819c-788f73d81a09&lang=en)